hi I'm Florian owner of solar windows
and we're here at the pumpkin ridge
passive house being built by hammer and
hand in North Plains Oregon and we're
going to show you a little bit about
rough opening preparation and window
installation as well as adjustment today
so the wall system being used here is a
2 by 6 conventional framing with Larsen
trusses on the outside to get extra
depth for extra insulation and we try to
install the windows about Center of the
insulation in order to maximize the
thermal properties so here you see the
two by six wall and then the rough
opening has been prepared with the
window buck in the full depth of the
wall now it's important to note that the
air tight layer of the windows is in the
inner third of the window so you want to
pull in the air tight barrier of your
house of your wall system into your
rough opening you can see that here here
it was done with fast flash that's by
Pro SoCo which is the method we strongly
recommend because it also weatherproof
sand waterproofs your rough opening and
helps to drain out any moisture that
might accumulate there later on now
prior to installing the window the fast
flash was installed we installed some
shims on the bottom to be able to set
the window and most importantly these
little corner pieces here to prevent the
window from falling out it's much easier
if you have them installed and then you
can install the window from the inside
rather than having someone holding
against it from the outside if you don't
want to use a wet flash system you can
also use a tape system especially like
see Govi glass systems to prepare your
rough opening and then set your window
into it the window we are installing
first is this operable window this is a
3 foot wide and 7 foot high tilting turn
unit which is a pretty heavy unit it
weighs about seven and a half pounds of
square foot so that makes it about a
hundred pound sash weight in order to
make install much easier We strongly
recommend taking the sash out prior to
installation of the frame and then
hanging it begin afterwards